Add guide and HCL to install CSE 4.0 in VCD v10.4 (#1003)
vmware/terraform-provider-vcd: website/docs/guides/container_service_extension_4_0.html.markdown

The configuration will create the following:

- A [Provider Gateway][provider_gateway] per Organization.
- An [Edge Gateway][edge_gateway] per Organization.
- Configure ALB with a shared Service Engine Group.
- A [Routed network][routed_network] per Organization.
- Two [SNAT rules][nat_rule] that will allow outbound access. Feel free to adjust or replace these rules with other ways
of providing outbound access.

~> SNAT rules is just a proposal to give the CSE Server and the clusters outbound access. Please review the [proposed configuration][step2]
first.

In order to create all the items listed above, the [proposed configuration][step2] asks for the following variables that you can customise in `terraform.tfvars`:

- `nsxt_manager_name`: It is the name of an existing [NSX-T Manager][nsxt_manager], which is needed in order to create the [Provider Gateways][provider_gateway].
  If you are going to use more than one [NSX-T Manager][nsxt_manager], please consider modifying the proposed configuration.
  In UI, [NSX-T Managers][nsxt_manager] can be found in the Provider view, inside _Infrastructure Resources > NSX-T_.

> - `solutions_nsxt_tier0_router_name`: It is the name of an existing [Tier-0 Router][nsxt_tier0_router], which is needed in order to create the [Provider Gateways][provider_gateway] in the Solutions Organization.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

up to the Providers to decide the most ideal way to generate such a token for its CSE Administrator in their particular scenarios.

### Step 1: Create RDEs and the CSE Administrator user

-> This step of the installation refers to the Terraform configuration present [here][step1].

In the [given configuration][step1] you can find a file named `terraform.tfvars.example`, you need to rename it to `terraform.tfvars`
and change the values present there to the ones that fit with your needs.

This step will create the following:

- The required `VCDKEConfig` [RDE Interface][rde_interface] and [RDE Type][rde_type].
- The required `capvcdCluster` [RDE Type][rde_type].
- The **CSE Admin [Role][role]**, that specifies the required rights for the CSE Administrator to manage provider-sided elements of VCD.
- The **CSE Administrator [User][user]** that will administrate the CSE Server and other aspects of VCD that are directly related to CSE.
  Feel free to add more attributes like `description` or `full_name` if needed.

Once reviewed and applied with `terraform apply`, one **must login with the created CSE Administrator user to
generate an API token** that will be used in the next step.

> 

Author: Added, thanks!

In order to do so, the [proposed configuration][step2] asks for the following variables that you can customise in `terraform.tfvars`:

- `nsxt_manager_name`: It is the name of an existing [NSX-T Manager][nsxt_manager]. It is required to create the [Provider Gateways][provider_gateway].
  If you are going to use more than one [NSX-T Manager][nsxt_manager], please consider modifying the proposed configuration.
  In UI, [NSX-T Managers][nsxt_manager] can be found in the Provider view, inside _Infrastructure Resources > NSX-T_.
- `nsxt_tier0_router_name`: It is the name of an existing [Tier-0 Router][nsxt_tier0_router]. It is required to create the [Provider Gateways][provider_gateway].
  If you are going to use more than one [Tier-0 Router][nsxt_tier0_router], please consider modifying the proposed configuration.
  In UI, [Tier-0 Routers][nsxt_tier0_router] can be found in the NSX-T manager web UI.
- `solutions_provider_gateway_gateway_ip`: The gateway IP of the [Provider Gateway][provider_gateway] that will be used by the Solutions Organization.
- `solutions_provider_gateway_gateway_prefix_length`: Prefix length for the mentioned [Provider Gateway][provider_gateway].

> - `solutions_provider_gateway_static_ip_ranges`: This is a list IP ranges that will be used by the [Provider Gateway][provider_gateway] that serves the Solutions Organization.

Author: cc: @sahithi @arunmk ⬆️

> - `solutions_provider_gateway_static_ip_ranges`: This is a list IP ranges that will be used by the [Provider Gateway][provider_gateway] that serves the Solutions Organization.

Author: I've added _"You can check the minimum amount of IPs required in [CSE documentation][cse_docs]."_ to the text.

If something does not work, please check the **Troubleshooting** section below.

#### Install the UI plugin

To manage CSE clusters with the UI, you can [download the Kubernetes Container Clusters UI plug-in 4.0][cse_docs]
and install it in your VCD appliance. If the old CSE 3.x plugin is installed, you will need to remove it first. The plugin
will allow tenants to create Kubernetes clusters with the UI wizard. Providers should still use the proposed Terraform configuration
to perform updates on the CSE Server (see sections below).

#### Troubleshooting

To evaluate the correctness of the setup, you can check the _"Verifying that the setup works"_ section above.

-> You can visit [the documentation][cse_docs] to learn how to monitor the logs and troubleshoot possible problems.

The most common issues are:

- Lack of Internet connectivity in CSE Server:
  - Verify that the IPs specified in your Provider Gateways are correct.
  - Verify that the IPs specified in your Edge Gateways are correct.
  - Verify that your Firewall setup is not blocking outbound connectivity.
  - Verify that the Routed network has the DNS correctly set and working.

> - OVA upload is taking too long:

Reviewer: Is it worth mentioning that the upload _might_ fail and the user might need to restart the process?

Author: I've added the following:

> - If upload fails, or you need to replace the OVA, you can do a `terraform apply -replace=vcd_catalog_vapp_template.cse_ova`.

Reviewer 2: That's a nice trick @adambarreiro ! Consider adding it to the resource doc page too:
https://registry.terraform.io/providers/vmware/vcd/latest/docs/resources/catalog_vapp_template

Author: Done!

The reason for such as split is that Providers require to generate an [API token][api_token]
for the CSE Administrator user. This operation needs to be done outside the Terraform realm for security reasons, and it's
up to the Providers to decide the most ideal way to generate such a token for its CSE Administrator in their particular scenarios.

### Step 1: Create RDEs and the CSE Administrator user

-> This step of the installation refers to the Terraform configuration present [here][step1].

In the [given configuration][step1] you can find a file named `terraform.tfvars.example`, you need to rename it to `terraform.tfvars`
and change the values present there to the ones that fit with your needs.

This step will create the following:

- The required `VCDKEConfig` [RDE Interface][rde_interface] and [RDE Type][rde_type]. These two resources specify the schema of the CSE Server
  configuration (called "VCDKEConfig") that will be instantiated in next step with a [RDE][rde].
- The required `capvcdCluster` [RDE Type][rde_type]. Its version is specified by the `capvcd_rde_version` variable, that **must be "1.1.0" for CSE v4.0**.
  This resource specifies the schema of the TKGm clusters.

> - The **CSE Admin [Role][role]**, that specifies the required rights for the CSE Administrator to manage provider-sided elements of VCD.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The **CSE Admin [Role][role]**, that specifies the required rights for the CSE Administrator to manage provider-side elements of VCD.
```

Author: Fixed!

- The **CSE Administrator [User][user]** that will administrate the CSE Server and other aspects of VCD that are directly related to CSE.
  Feel free to add more attributes like `description` or `full_name` if needed.

Once reviewed and applied with `terraform apply`, one **must login with the created CSE Administrator user to
generate an API token** that will be used in the next step. In UI, the API tokens can be generated in the CSE Administrator
user preferences in the top right, then go to the API tokens section, add a new one.

> Or you can visit `/provider/administration/settings/user-preferences` from your VCD url as CSE Administrator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Or you can visit `/provider/administration/settings/user-preferences` at your VCD URL as CSE Administrator.
```

Author: Fixed.

### Step 2: Install CSE

-> This step of the installation refers to the Terraform configuration present [here][step2].

~> Be sure that previous step is successfully completed and the API token for the CSE Administrator user was created.

This step will create all the remaining elements to install CSE v4.0 in VCD. You can read subsequent sections
to have a better understanding of the building blocks that are described in the [proposed Terraform configuration][step2].

In this [configuration][step2] you can also find a file named `terraform.tfvars.example`, you need to rename it to `terraform.tfvars`
and change the values present there to the correct ones. You can also modify the proposed resources so they fit better to your needs.

#### Organizations

The [proposed configuration][step2] will create two new [Organizations][org], as specified in the [CSE documentation][cse_docs]:

> - A Solutions [Organization][org]: This [Organization][org] will host all provider-scoped items, such as the CSE Server.
>   It should only be accessible to the CSE Administrator and Providers.
> - A Tenant [Organization][org]: This [Organization][org] will host the TKGm clusters for the users of this tenant to consume them.

Reviewer 2: I usually like links a lot, but in this case it's a bit too much for the same link :) Suggesting to simplify for the paragraph to feel more "soft":

```suggestion
- A Solutions [Organization][org], which will host all provider-scoped items, such as the CSE Server.
  It should only be accessible to the CSE Administrator and Providers.
- A Tenant [Organization][org], which will host the TKGm clusters for the users of this tenant to consume them.
```

p.s. "TKGm clusters", on the other hand, could have a link, if you have one handy.

Author: Done! Added the TKGm links also.

If you already have these two [Organizations][org] created and you want to use them instead, you can leverage customising the [proposed configuration][step2]

> to use the Organization [data source][org_d] to fetch them.

Author: Changed.

#### VM Sizing Policies

The [proposed configuration][step2] will create four VM Sizing Policies:

- `TKG extra_large`: 8 CPUs, 32GB RAM.
- `TKG large`: 4 CPUs, 16GB RAM.
- `TKG medium`: 2 CPUs, 8GB RAM.
- `TKG small`: 2 CPU, 4GB RAM.

> These VM Sizing Policies should be applied as they are. Nothing should be changed here. They will be assigned to the Tenant

Reviewer 2: > Nothing should be changed here.

First question that pops up for me after reading this is "why?" :) If there is a short way explaining why it shouldn't be changed, please add a sentence.

Organization's VDC to be able to dimension the created TKGm clusters (see section below).

#### VDCs

The [proposed configuration][step2] will create two [VDCs][vdc], one for the Solutions Organization and another one for the Tenant Organization.

You need to specify the following values in `terraform.tfvars`:

- `provider_vdc_name`: This is used to fetch an existing [Provider VDC][provider_vdc], that will be used to create the two VDCs.
  If you are going to use more than one [Provider VDC][provider_vdc], please consider modifying the proposed configuration.
  In UI, [Provider VDCs][provider_vdc] can be found in the Provider view, inside _Cloud Resources_ menu.
- `nsxt_edge_cluster_name`: This is used to fetch an existing [Edge Cluster][edge_cluster], that will be used to create the two VDCs.
  If you are going to use more than one [Edge Cluster][edge_cluster], please consider modifying the proposed configuration.
  In UI, [Edge Clusters][edge_cluster] can be found in the NSX-T manager web UI.

> - `network_pool_name`: This references an existing Network pool and it's used to create both VDCs.
>   If you are going to use more than one Network pool, please consider modifying the proposed configuration.

Reviewer 2: Did you mean this?

```suggestion
- `network_pool_name`: This references an existing Network Pool, which is used to create both VDCs.
  If you are going to use more than one Network Pool, please consider modifying the proposed configuration.
```

Author: Yes, changed!

  all the CSE Server OVAs that are required to run and upgrade the CSE Server.
- A catalog to host TKGm OVA files, only accessible to CSE Administrators but shared as read-only to tenants, that can use them to create TKGm clusters.

Then it will upload the required OVAs to them. The OVAs can be specified in `terraform.tfvars`:

- `tkgm_ova_folder`: This will reference the path to the TKGm OVA, as an absolute or relative path. It should **not** end with a trailing `/`.
- `tkgm_ova_file`: This will reference the file name of the TKGm OVA, like `ubuntu-2004-kube-v1.22.9+vmware.1-tkg.1-2182cbabee08edf480ee9bc5866d6933.ova`.
- `cse_ova_folder`: This will reference the path to the CSE OVA, as an absolute or relative path. It should **not** end with a trailing `/`.
- `cse_ova_file`: This will reference the file name of the CSE OVA, like `VMware_Cloud_Director_Container_Service_Extension-4.0.1.ova`.

-> To download the required OVAs, please refer to the [CSE documentation][cse_docs].

~> Both CSE Server and TKGm OVAs are heavy. Please take into account that the upload process could take more than 30 minutes, depending

> on upload speed. You can tune the `upload_piece_size` to speed up the upload. Another option would be uploading them manually in the UI and
> using the [vcd_catalog_vapp_template][catalog_vapp_template_ds] data source instead.

Reviewer 2: Trying to decouple UI and explanation about data source.

```suggestion
on upload speed. You can tune the `upload_piece_size` to speed up the upload. Another option would be uploading them manually in the UI. In case you're using a pre-uploaded OVA, leverage the [vcd_catalog_vapp_template][catalog_vapp_template_ds] data source (instead of the resource).
```

Author: Thanks, changed!

> If you need to upload more than one OVA, please modify the [proposed configuration][step2], or if you want to use existing OVAs you can also leverage
> using the [vcd_catalog_vapp_template][catalog_vapp_template_ds] data source instead.

Reviewer 2: I think we don't need the 2nd part of the sentence as you already have it in the note above.

```suggestion
If you need to upload more than one OVA, please modify the [proposed configuration][step2].
```

Author: True, removed.

### "Kubernetes Cluster Author" global role

> Apart from the role to administrate the CSE Server created in [step 1][step1], we also need a [Global Role][global_role]

Reviewer 2: "administrate" sounds [interesting](https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/116384/administer-or-administrate) here :) I was thinking about "administer", but probably even easier is "manage":

```suggestion
Apart from the role to manage the CSE Server created in [step 1][step1], we also need a [Global Role][global_role]
```

Author: My "Spanglish" attacked here :)
Changes!

for the TKGm clusters consumers (it would be similar to the concept of "vApp Author" but for TKGm clusters).

In order to create this [Global Role][global_role], the [proposed configuration][step2] first
creates a new [Rights Bundle][rights_bundle] and publishes it to all the tenants, then creates the [Global Role][global_role].

### Networking

> The [proposed configuration][step2] configures a basic networking layout that will make CSE v4.0 work. However, it is

Reviewer 2: Avoiding "configuration configures" ("butterish butter" as an old saying has here :) ):

```suggestion
The [proposed configuration][step2] prepares a basic networking layout that will make CSE v4.0 work. However, it is
```

Author: Fixed!

  defines the end usable IP.
- `tenant_snat_external_ip`: This is used to create a SNAT rule on the Tenant Edge Gateway to provide Internet connectivity to the clusters. The external IP should be one available IP of the Tenant
  [Provider Gateway][provider_gateway].
- `tenant_snat_internal_network_cidr`: This is used to create a SNAT rule on the Tenant Edge Gateway to provide Internet connectivity to the clusters. The subnet should correspond to the Tenant
  Organization [Routed network][routed_network].
- `tenant_routed_network_dns`: DNS Server for the Tenant Organization [Routed network][routed_network]. It can be left blank if it's not needed.

If you wish to have a different networking setup, please modify the [proposed configuration][step2].

### CSE Server

The final set of resources created by the [proposed configuration][step2] correspond to the CSE Server vApp.
The generated VM makes use of the uploaded CSE OVA and some required guest properties.

In order to do so, the [configuration][step2] asks for the following variables that you can customise in `terraform.tfvars`:

> - `vcdkeconfig_template_filepath`: This references a local file that corresponds with the `VCDKEConfig` [RDE][rde] contents specified as a JSON template.
>   You can find this template [here](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/tree/main/examples/container-service-extension-4.0/entities/vcdkeconfig-template.json).

Reviewer 2: This is a bit overwhelming for a fresh user :) Unfortunately, I don't have an idea how to simplify it. Maybe this (it may not be correct anymore though):

```suggestion
- `vcdkeconfig_template_filepath`: references a local file that defines the `VCDKEConfig` schema ([RDE][rde] contents) specified as a JSON template.
  You can find this template [here](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/tree/main/examples/container-service-extension-4.0/entities/vcdkeconfig-template.json).
```

Maybe we should also add "It must match CSE version used." or similar sentence.

CC: @Didainius @adezxc @dataclouder (for ideas)

Author: I changed it with slightly different words, as the JSON is not really the schema, but the RDE contents.
But I hope it's improved now.

  rule_type   = "SNAT"
  description = "CSE Server SNAT rule"

  external_address = "One available IP from Solutions Provider Gateway"
  internal_address = "CSE Server IP"
  logging          = true
}
```

- With the UI, you can go to the CSE Server VM and open a **web console**. The credentials to login are shown in the _Guest customization properties Edit view_.

Once you gain access to the CSE Server, you can check the `cse.log` file, the configuration file or check Internet connectivity.
If something does not work, please check the **Troubleshooting** section below.

#### Install the UI plugin

To manage CSE clusters with the UI, you can [download the Kubernetes Container Clusters UI plug-in 4.0][cse_docs]
and install it in your VCD appliance. If the old CSE 3.x plugin is installed, you will need to remove it first. The plugin
will allow tenants to create Kubernetes clusters with the UI wizard. Providers should still use the proposed Terraform configuration
to perform updates on the CSE Server (see sections below).

#### Troubleshooting

To evaluate the correctness of the setup, you can check the _"Verifying that the setup works"_ section above.

> -> You can visit [the documentation][cse_docs] to learn how to monitor the logs and troubleshoot possible problems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-> You can visit [the CSE documentation][cse_docs] to learn how to monitor the logs and troubleshoot possible problems.
```

Author: Fixed, thanks for spotting!

In the [proposed configuration][step2], you can find the `cse_ova` [vApp Template][catalog_vapp_template] and the 
`cse_server_vm` [VM][vm] that were applied during the installation process.
Then you can create a new `vcd_catalog_vapp_template` and modify `cse_server_vm` to reference it:

```hcl
# Uploads a new CSE Server OVA. In the example below, we upload version 4.0.2
resource "vcd_catalog_vapp_template" "new_cse_ova" {
  org        = vcd_org.solutions_organization.name # References the Solutions Organization
  catalog_id = vcd_catalog.cse_catalog.id          # References the CSE Catalog

  name        = "VMware_Cloud_Director_Container_Service_Extension-4.0.2"
  description = "VMware_Cloud_Director_Container_Service_Extension-4.0.2"
  ova_path    = "/home/bob/cse/VMware_Cloud_Director_Container_Service_Extension-4.0.2.ova"
}

# ...

# Update the vApp Template reference to update the CSE Server
resource "vcd_vapp_vm" "cse_server_vm" {
  # ...
  vapp_template_id = vcd_catalog_vapp_template.new_cse_ova.id # Change to the new OVA version
}
```

## Uninstall CSE

~> Before uninstalling CSE, make sure you mark all clusters for deletion in VCD UI.

> Once all clusters are removed in the background by CSE Server, you may destroy the remaining infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: It's awesome you have covered not only setup, but also upgrade and destroy. Tiny suggestion to be clear destroy is done with Terraform too:

```suggestion
Once all clusters are removed in the background by CSE Server, you may destroy the remaining infrastructure with Terraform command.
```

Author: Changed, thanks!
